# IOT-bigdata-project

Executive Summary

In stores, there are sales representatives who guide and recommend related products when shopping. On the other hand, many different products are available on online retail platforms, and you have to navigate yourself to find the right one. The situation is that users have too many options and choices available, but don't want to spend a lot of time exploring the entire catalog of items. Therefore, the role of recommender systems (RS) is important for recommending related products and increasing customer conversions and satisfaction.
The project analyzes a dataset of Amazon’s customer reviews from 1995 until 2015 mainly focused on electronics in America. With the help of 2.1 million reviews from various customers we have created a prediction model that provides electronics recommendations to customers, predicts customer reviews based on their real experience using those products as well an ability to find out the most favorable and least rated list of products in a given timeframe. Some of the major challenges that we dealt with were finding the dataset, processing the data, and understanding the data.
The model was then applied to the training dataset, top 10 product recommendations for each consumer, and generation of top 10 user recommendations for each product. Conclusively, the model created using the dataset allowed us to visualize the rating pattern of various users along with predictions of rating, plotting of the negative and positive words from reviews, visualizing the reviews and ratings, generating top recommendations of items for specific users making a unique experience for each user. Our model successfully generates predictive user ratings and recommendations enriching interaction in every step of the way. The aim of this project is to find out business insights, such as: • Analyze customer review and rating behavior • Popularity of products based on reviews • Positive and negative words in reviews • Poorly performing products based on rating

Data Description
The dataset used in the analysis is taken from Amazon reviews dataset: (https://s3.amazonaws.com/amazon-reviews-pds/readme.html) . The data was collected. The dataset is 1.7 GB in size. These files contain over 2.1 million ratings from 1995 to 2015 and reflect the distribution of all ratings received during this period. The ratings are on a scale from 1 to 5 (integral) stars. To protect customer privacy, each customer id has been replaced with a randomly review_id, including product title, helpful votes, verified purchase. The date of each rating and the review body and year of rating are also provided.
Data set link : https://s3.amazonaws.com/amazon-reviews-pds/tsv/amazon_reviews_us_Electronics_v1_00.tsv.gz

Research Questions:
The "What to Recommend" section is completely dependent on the context in which the Recommender System is used and can help the business increase revenues by providing the most likely items that users can buy or increase engagement by displaying relevant content at the right time. The Recommender System ensures that the product or content that is being recommended is something that users might like but would not have discovered on their own. Along with that, the Recommender System requires a variety of recommendations to keep it interesting.
The impact of these recommendations is proving to be immense from a business standpoint, and hence more time is being spent on making these recommendation systems more efficient and relevant. Some of the immediate benefits that Recommender systems offer in retail settings are increased revenue, positive reviews, and ratings by users, increased engagement.
Our goal is to create a predictive rating and product recommendation model that can be used to predict ratings given by the consumers on Amazon and provide them with a recommended item that will help them in finding the helpful item by minimizing the options using collaborative filtering and logistic regression. Aligning to our goals and available dataset we came up with the following research questions:
1. Which products do active customers recommend to their friends and others?
A Recommendation system can be created based on previous ratings given by existing consumers. We went over various recommendation models along with the strengths and limitations of each. We then created a collaborative filtering-based recommender system in PySpark using the ALS method to recommend products to users.
2. What are the least popular and most popular electronic products based on ratings?
Based on the customer ratings we can find out the most and least popular electronic products for the ones least appreciated by customers in a given time frame on the platform and the ones most appreciated on the Amazon platform during the given time frame.
3. What are the features deriving the sentiment in a review given by the customer?
We infer the attributes that the consumer seeks in the product by examining the sentiment in the dataset's "review body" column. In our model, we also demonstrate that bigram feature extraction is more efficient than unigram.

